            Release Notes for McAfee(R) 
               Virex(R) version 7.7.
                   HotFix 255495.
           Copyright (C) 2006 McAfee, Inc.
                 All Rights Reserved

==========================================================

HotFix Release:        March 1, 2006.

This release was developed and tested with:

- Virex version:       7.7 (Build 163)
- DAT version:         Not Applicable
- Engine version:      4.4.00


Make sure you have installed these versions or newer
DAT/Engine versions before using this release.

==========================================================


Thank you for using McAfee(R) Virex(R) software.
This file contains important information regarding
this release. We strongly recommend that you read
the entire document.

The attached files are provided as is, and with no
warranty either expressed or implied as to their
suitability for any particular use or purpose.
McAfee, Inc. assumes no liability for damages
incurred either directly or indirectly as a result
of the use of these files, including but not limited
to the loss or damage of data or systems, loss of
business or revenue, or incidental damages arising
from their use. Patch files should be applied only
on the advice of McAfee Technical Support, and only
when you are actually experiencing the issue being
addressed by the Patch. Patch files should not be
proactively applied in order to prevent potential
product issues. You are responsible for reading and
following all instructions for preparation,
configuration, and installation of Patch files.
Patch files are not a substitute or replacement for
product Service Packs which may be released by
McAfee, Inc. It is a violation of your software
license agreement to distribute or share these files
with any other person or entity without written
permission from McAfee, Inc. Further, posting of
McAfee Patch files to publicly available Internet
sites is prohibited. McAfee, Inc. reserves the right
to refuse distribution of Patch files to any company
or person guilty of unlawful distribution of McAfee
software products. Questions or issues with McAfee
Patch files should be directed to McAfee Technical
Support.


__________________________________________________________
ABOUT THIS RELEASE


PURPOSE

This HotFix includes files for use with McAfee Virex
version 7.7 (Build 163). These new files resolve the 
issue listed below.

__________________________________________________________
RESOLVED ISSUE


1. The eUpdate package is not validated before 
   installing the product.

2. eUpdate failed message is displayed even when the 
   update is successful on Mac OS X 10.4.4 and above.

3. eUpdate fails to update from the local eUpdate 
   server under certain circumstances.

__________________________________________________________
FILES INCLUDED WITH THIS RELEASE

This release consists of a package called
HF255495.ZIP, which contains the following files:


    VShieldeUpdate =
       eUpdate daemon.

    digest.plist =
       Product checksum file.

    Install.sh =
       Installation script for the HotFix

    ReadMe.txt =
       This text file.

__________________________________________________________
INSTALLATION


INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS

To use this HotFix, you must have McAfee Virex
version 7.7 (Build 163) installed on the computer
you intend to update.

    IMPORTANT NOTE:
    This HotFix will NOT work with any earlier
    versions of the software.


INSTALLATION STEPS


1.  Close Virex application if it is running.

2.  Extract the following files from the HotFix
    package (HF255495.ZIP) into a folder:

    VShieldeUpdate
    digest.plist
    Install.sh
    README.TXT

3.  Open the Terminal application located under
    /Applications/Utilities folder.

4.  From the Terminal, go to the folder where you
    have extracted the HotFix files.

      The easiest way to do this is:
      1. Type "cd" (sans quotes) and then the space bar.

      2. Drag and drop the "H255495" folder on the Terminal Window and then press the "Return" key.
 
      3. To make sure it is looking in the correct directory type "ls" (sans quotes) and press the "Return" 
         key. You should see the four files listed (specifically the Install.sh file).

5.  Execute the "Install.sh" script file from the
    folder by typing the following command at the
    command line.

    ./Install.sh

    [Type "./Install.sh" (sans quotes) and then press the "Return" key. It should ask you for your Administrator 
    password (if not that could be your problem, you are not logged in as an administrator). Enter your Admin 
    password and press the "Return" key. It should install the fix and show that it completed successfully.]

    NOTE:
    You will need to supply your administrator
    password to execute this script when prompted.

6.  Close the Terminal application, once you see the
    message "Installation completed successfully" at
    the command line.


TESTING YOUR INSTALLATION

You can check that the HotFix is applied correctly
by verifying the product version information of
VShieldUpdate:

1.  Go to the folder /usr/local/vscanx/

2.  Execute the following command:

    ./VShieldUpdate -v

3.  The result should be as follows:

    VShieldUpdate, Virex 7.7 (build 175) Copyright
    (c) 2006 McAfee, Inc. All Rights Reserved.


REMOVING THIS RELEASE

We recommend that you do NOT remove this HotFix file
from your McAfee Virex version 7.7. If you reinstall
your Virex, we recommend that you also reinstall
this HotFix.


__________________________________________________________
OTHER INFORMATION

To download new beta software or to read about 
the latest beta information, visit the beta website: 

  http://www.mcafeesecurity.com/us/downloads/beta/mcafeebetahome.htm

To submit beta feedback on any McAfee product, send email to:

  mcafee_beta@mcafee.com

For contact information, see:

  http://www.mcafee.com/pubs/contacts.html

For copyright, trademark attributions, and license information, see:

  http://www.mcafee.com/pubs/copyright.html

For patents protecting this product, see the product documentation. 


DBN-001-EN
V-01/06