<!doctype html public "-//w3c//dtd html 4.0 transitional//en">

<html>

<head>

   <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">

   <meta name="Generator" content="Microsoft Word 97">

   <meta name="GENERATOR" content="Mozilla/4.75 [en] (Win98; U) [Netscape]">

   <title>ACADEMIC SENATE MINUTES</title>

</head>

<body link="#0000FF" vlink="#800080">



<center><b>ACADEMIC SENATE MINUTES</b>

<p><b>Meeting of October 16, 2000</b>

<p><b>John W. Schwada Classroom Building, Room 210</b>

<p><b>3:15 ? 5:00 p.m.</b></center>



<p><font size=+0><b>Present:</b> Azuma, Bainbridge, Baker, Balding, Ball,

Bell, Bernstein, Bird, Blumenfeld-Jones, Britton, Brock, Brown, Burgess,

Burns, Burstein, Carey, Chaudhuri, Cobas, Cochran, Craft, Davey, Defato,

Dwyer, Escobar, Facinelli, Falconer, Feller, Fink, Fouquette, Fuse, Garcia,

Glick, Golshani, Gooding, Gully, Hajicek, Harrison, Hoffmeister, Humble,

Hurdle, Jackson, Johnson, Karady, Komnenich, Kopta, Landers (Donna), Landers

(Daniel), Margolis, Matt, Mattson, Mayer, Misra, Moore (Carleton), Moorehead,

Okun, Panchanathan, Rice, Rivera, Roosa, Saenz, Santos de Barona, Sharma,

Smith (Hal), Smith (Georgia), Smith (Harvey), Tillery, Trotta, Ward, Wilkinson,

Yao</font>

<p><font size=+0><b>Senators Absent: (* indicates absent with prior notice):

</b>Adams*, Anderson, Bird*, Brock, Burg*, Clark, Cook, Evancho, Fafitis,

Grossman*, Guleserian<b>, </b>Kahn, Larimer, Lock, MacEachron, Magenta,

Maimon, Marchant, McCoy*, Mignolet, Moore (Moses), Moore (Thomas), Mulvihill*,

Philippakis, Reyes, Romero*, Segal*, Smith (Beth)*, Solis*, Strom, Underwood*,

Voleck, Wyndelts, Zeitlin, Zeng</font>

<p><font size=+0><b>Guests:</b> Mernoy Harrison, Vice Provost for Administration,

Gail Hackett, Vice Provost for Academic Personnel, David Techau, Director

of Academic Facilities, Kathy Tibbetts, Manager, Academic Scheduling, Tom

Trotter, Vice Provost for Academic Programs</font>

<p><font size=+0><b>1. Call to Order</b>.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The meeting was called to order at

3:20 p.m. by Senate President Doug Johnson.</font>

<p><b><font size=+0>2. Acceptance of Previous Minutes of September 18,

2000.</font></b>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The draft minutes of September 18,

2000, were approved as published on the Academic Senate web site. If there

are further editorial corrections, please contact Darby Shaw at the Senate

office (965-9245).</font>

<p><b><font size=+0>3. Announcements and Communications.</font></b>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.A. Senate President's Report</b>

(Douglas Johnson).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Many of you have received early ballots,

and it is nice to know that you will have time to reflect on your options.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The first order of business today

will be to ask Mernoy Harrison, Vice Provost for Administration, to give

us an overview of construction plans that are in progress on the campus.

You have all seen the construction barriers and chain link fences go up

and a variety of other indicators that let you know things are changing

rapidly. I thought it would be useful for you to know what is coming up

in the near future, so you can make adjustments to your plans accordingly.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.B Vice Provost for Administration</b>

(Mernoy Harrison).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I will give you a quick update. You

can find the information that I will give to you on the Facilities Management

Web Site. You can find us by going to the ASU main web page, clicking on

index, and choosing "F" under the directory for Facilities Management.

There is a construction update that you may select once you go to that

location. It shows what is currently being done, a list of what streets

are closed and what projects are being worked on; this is an example of

what large impacts and closures are indicated for the campus. For example,

Lemon Street will be closed between College and Forest between October

4 and October 18. We will also have a closure northbound on Forest Avenue

(north from Apache to Gammage Parkway) September 19 ? October 31. Our biggest

impact is a complete redoing of the sewer along McAllister Avenue, beginning

on University and moving south along McAllister; it will not be fully completed

until March 2001. We will update you on that particular project to let

you know what portions of McAllister will be closed, and when. Whenever

you are wondering about what is going on with the campus construction projects,

just go to the web site and find out that information.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The 2000-01 construction projects

are also listed. They include a Residential Life Center; an ICA addition;

a public-private dormitory on Apache where the old Dash Inn used to be;

the sewer project on McAllister; a sewer project on Forest Mall; a power

upgrade on Stadium Drive; a Cady and Forest Mall upgrade; an Adidas Training

Facility on the old baseball field east of Rural and the athletic fields;

and the Old Main restoration project which is about to be completed. Other

projects include a College of Business renovation, which is due to start

at the end of the academic year in May; the Tempe Center development is

scheduled to begin construction sometime in January 2001. You will start

to see some of the buildings in Tempe Center come down. The Memorial Union

(and Bookstore) addition is scheduled to begin construction in October

of 2001. We will probably begin some of the demolition of the PE West Annex

in June or July of 2001. The mediated classroom building is scheduled to

be constructed on what is now Parking Lot 8 (next to the KAET Stauffer

Hall), and that project is scheduled to begin construction in July or August

of 2001. The ASU Rio Salado Project, which is the development of the Town

Lake area, will not begin project construction for the next twelve to eighteen

months. Then there will be Central Plant improvements (proposals are just

beginning to be received on that). This represents a number of projects

and is related to the Energy Services Agreement that we are working on

with Arizona Public Service. It will affect all our buildings and our central

plant to increase our energy efficiency and to replace some of our old

faulty equipment. That work will begin in January of 2001. Most of that

work will take place in the central plant, although we will be taking out

a lot of lights in buildings. We will have to schedule that around your

activities.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There is a map on the web site. The

map has a lot of information and each number on the map is a link to another

site that will give a description of the project, so you can get a better

picture of the site location. We are trying to keep the campus as knowledgeable

as possible about construction on campus because there is simply a lot

of it going on. Many infrastructure projects have already begun: the sewer,

expanding chilled water and steam, all the really exciting stuff that tears

up the campus.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Are there any questions that you want

to ask me?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Rice: I have one point and

one question. Is Facilities Management aware of the need to conduct archeological

testing at these construction sites by the Anthropology Department?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: Yes, they have been

in touch with us quite often.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Rice: There are two points

that I want to make, 1) Facilities Management has acted very responsibly

by having archeological testing done at construction sites by the Anthropology

Department, and 2) there are two laws that cover the protection of archeological

sites on state lands, including ASU property. One of them is the law that

has to do with the need to recover and repatriate the burials to the appropriate

Native American Tribes, and that applies anyplace within the state. Then

ASU as a state property is also covered by the Arizona Antiquities Act

that requires that we not only recover the Native American burials but

that we also document the archeology before it is destroyed. Any project

that is conducted on campus needs to hear about both of these laws. We

must operate a little bit differently than the City of Tempe.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: We will call you

then each time before we dig any holes.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Rice: There is interesting

data coming out of the North Dorm residence site, both on historic sites

and on the Hispanic village that was here before even the Mill was here.

The very first Tempe began as a Hispanic village and people from the Tucson

area settled it.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I am also interested in, and concerned

about, the development to the north of Tempe Butte. I am wondering to what

extent and what the provisions are for having input on the scale of buildings

(so they do not go up too high). We want to maintain the view around the

city.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: We have two proposals

from developers, and those are away from the Butte. Our property does not

get close to the Butte. But in terms of the view, any input you wish to

provide would be acceptable.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Gooding: You have talked about

major construction projects. What is the status of the major classroom

renovations, specifically Murdock 201 and other classrooms, that are still

in dire need of help?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: I do not know a lot

about those specific projects.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Techau: Murdock 201 is on our

five-year plan. We renovate classrooms each year, and that is tied to our

level of funding. Typically, a full-scale modernization of a classroom

costs the university anywhere between a quarter to one-half million dollars

and up. It is an expensive proposition. All the classrooms in this facility,

as well as Murdock Hall, are on the list for the next five years, but again

that depends on the level of capital improvement funding that is available.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Komnenich: I was just curious

about any height restrictions on buildings in Tempe.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: We were a little

bit surprised. We thought we were going to have a general height restriction

of about six floors, but the City of Tempe is starting to look at intensifying

its development. We have not encouraged any development to be over the

equivalent of a six-story building. On the campus, although our Life Sciences

building violates that, our height limit is about 75 feet (six floors).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Britton: I want to comment

on number 12 on the map, Stablers, etc. What is the status of tearing it

down?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: He is talking about

the Tempe Center redevelopment. The developers are working on a 140,000

square foot retail space. Stablers? Market has the option to stay in this

location until the end of the year 2002. At that point we are hoping to

work out some agreement to have a grocer located in the redeveloped Tempe

Center, probably in the second phase. It will be toward the backside of

the development. The likelihood of a grocer being in Tempe Center is not

good, not because we do not want one there, but because of the economics

of renting and the fact that grocery stores need a flat parking lot--and

no flat parking is planned in Tempe Center. Just finding a grocer willing

to pay the rent that will be charged for Tempe Center space, and finding

a grocer that is willing to operate in a very urban style, as opposed to

a surburban style, will both be hard. We are working with the developers

on this to find a grocer that will fit into that type of development.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Saenz: You addressed the issue

of structure in this development project, but I suspect you are already

considering arguments regarding community issues on grocery stores in this

area. One of the issues is that there are not many grocery stores in that

part of town. And it would serve an important service, not just for students,

but for a large Hispanic community in that part of Tempe. Can you speak

to that?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: All I know is that

the City of Tempe and the neighborhoods have been, and are currently working

on getting a grocery store in the Northwest Tempe area, including the Tempe

Center site as one possibility. This is not a new situation. As I learn

more about the history of the grocery stores, there have been many attempts

by the city to encourage developers and grocers to get together, which

have proven up to this point successful for some of the reasons that I

just mentioned. What grocers look for is a 50,000 square foot building,

surrounded by three acres of parking. You need a site that is between four

and five acres. If you think about Northwest Tempe and think about where

there are four to five acres of spare dirt, you see the problem. In addition,

grocers want to be on a major thoroughfare, like on University or Mill

or Rural. When you put all those things together, unless you find the grocer

that is willing to be creative and break outside "the box" with a parking

lot concept, that has been the difficulty.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Gooding: At one time they

planned to make Tempe Center an entrance to the campus. Is that still part

of the plan?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: Yes.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Chaudhuri: There is a new

Facilities Management layer in each college. These people work with central

Facilities Management. However it is a layer that I am not sure is working

efficiently, in terms of communication between the college and university

level at least. Construction has affected many of us directly. If we ask

the college people what to do, they say that Facilities Management is on

vacation. Can you comment on this situation?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: That is a problem

that we are fixing in Facilities Management, which is a problem of property

managers that have gone on vacation--meanwhile projects do not stop. We

have effectively fixed this problem in the last four to five months.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Chaudhuri: It has affected

students, too. Every so often someone comes and puts a nail in.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: I am not sure, is

that the Social Sciences Building you are talking about?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Kathy Tibbetts: They had an elevator

down in Social Sciences and a lot of people had to reschedule their classes

elsewhere.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: If that elevator

was broken and we were having trouble finding parts, that is what could

have happened.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Fuse: Can you tell me what

building is planned to go on the number 12 site?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: Tempe Center will,

that we were just talking about. Initially on the North, it is a ten-acre

site. If you look at the North half, that is where the redevelopment is

taking place. The first phase will be two levels of retail, one building

along Mill Avenue and one building along University Avenue and a parking

structure along Myrtle Avenue. The balance of that area will be open space.

Over time we will put on the South part, and even some university facilities,

but there will always be a major entryway into the campus, flowing from

University and Mill into the campus.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A Senator: Will there be academic

buildings on the Southside? (Yes, eventually.)</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: The office space

crunch on campus is not going to be impacted by the Tempe Center Development.

Possibly in Phase II, one of the things that we are working on now is whether

or not there should or could be some additional university office space

in the second phase of the Tempe Center redevelopment. That is a financial

issue. The same dollars that we use for the Mill office space are the same

dollars being used to do everything else on the campus. We are in a fairly

tight budget operation, and not getting the building renewal capitalization

that we had counted on has significantly impacted our ability to deal with

space problems.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Burgess: Would it be possible

to speed up classroom building renovations? There are several that are

in desperate need of upgrade. Do you suppose that if we subcontracted with

Amazon.com on our textbook purchases that we could close the ASU Bookstore

and use the money that we save to do classrooms? (Much laughter here.)</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: That is a question

that we really talked about a lot, and we concluded that we could not save

a lot of money by outsourcing the bookstore. The real question is, can

we find some resources to expedite the upgrade of our classrooms, and that

is something that we have a meeting scheduled for this week. The primary

vehicle that we have to use for classroom renovations was building renewal

allocation, and it was only funded by the legislature at 23% of the formula.

That is a difference of over seven million dollars.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Karady: the computer-assisted

classroom can significantly improve The Engineering program, when the student

has a computer and the professor has one. Do we have any plans to build

this type of classroom for Engineering?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mernoy Harrison: Yes. I do not know

about Engineering specifically, but there are some plans to build some

mediated classrooms that would be open to the entire campus in the mediated

classroom building. There is also some discussion, we have not done the

programming yet, but there is an interdisciplinary research complex that

just recently received project initiation approval by the Board of Regents,

and that building also could possibly have some mediated classroom facilities.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Doug Johnson: Thank you very much,

Mernoy, for your report. My favorite construction project was #10, Old

Main renovation, because you can now see that project actually get done.

I hope everyone is ready to celebrate the opening of the new Old Main on

November 11.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The next item on our agenda is to

introduce our new Vice Provost for Academic Personnel, Gail Hackett, who

comes to us with extensive experience in the ASU College of Education,

and we will ask her to say a few words on personnel matters.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.C Vice Provost for Academic Personnel</b>

(Gail Hackett).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Now that I am in the Provost Office,

as opposed to running back and forth between my old job and my new job,

I am spending most of my time getting to know what is going on. The two

big issues that are looming are the two task forces that Walter Harris

established last year, and whose draft reports are now posted on the Center

for Learning and Teaching Excellence web site (<b><u><font color="#0000FF">http://www.asu.edu/clte</font></u></b>).

One is the report of the Task Force on Promotion and Tenure policies and

procedures. Anne Schneider is the chair of that workgroup. The other is

the draft report of the Task Force chaired by Herb Kaufmann on Non-permanent

Full-time Faculty, called the Lecturer?s Task Force for short, but it doesn?t

just study lecturers. It includes other individuals. Doug, you are on the

Promotion and Tenure Task Force. I think we are at the point where we are

trying to arrange for Anne to visit with the Senate.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Doug Johnson: We are looking forward

to a formal presentation, perhaps as early as the next Senate meeting.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gail Hackett: Sometime after that,

we have a couple of open forums scheduled to hear the report of the Non-permanent

Faculty Task Force, and at some time Herb Kaufman will report to the Senate,

before the end of the semester.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Doug Johnson: Certainly, we can appreciate

the importance of promotion and tenure items, and I would ask that you

look at the recommendations carefully and provide input as you wish. David,

is there a meeting next week on the Task Force on Promotion and Tenure?

(David will report on this.)</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.D ASASU President?s Report</b>

(Alex Bainbridge).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ASASU has been working a lot, but

I have been sick for this last week. I can report that we have registered

2,395 voters on our campus during the past few months. I want to thank

all of you for your help on that. Now we have to go out and vote. Encourage

your students, and of course yourselves, to support higher education with

your vote.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; At the last ASA meeting (Arizona Students

Association), we did not win our bet with the UofA on voter registration.

I personally think they cheated. At any rate, they registered a few more

than we did: 2,415. I do not understand that, but we still did our job!</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our ASASU Senate did support Proposition

301, so we are going ahead with that initiative. We will spread the good

word. We are also having a higher education forum on Wednesday night, October

17, in Room 105 of the ASU College of Law, Armstrong Hall, at 6:00 p.m.

Our candidates will be from Districts 26 and 27.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This week please help us out again

in beating UofA in our Blood Drive effort. Hopefully, no one will leak

the true amount of donated blood (here) to UofA.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: As I mentioned earlier,

the building maintenance appropriations have been so terribly low, and

faculty salary increases have been slow in coming, it now seems that political

pressure is the only solution. David Burstein will provide us with an update

on that as a part of his past president?s report.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.E Past Senate President?s Report</b>

(David Burstein).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Alex, I think we need to share this

information. The Candidate Forum will be at 6:30 p.m. on Wednesday at Armstrong

hall. The issue has become clear to us, and I have stressed this before,

that if we do not start participating in the political process as a faculty

we will lose out. The one lesson that I have learned in my dealings with

the legislature last year, as faculty president, is that if we do not get

good peopled elected we will be the losers. Until we get the legislature

to put education in general and higher education in particular on their

docket as a "must fund" issue, we are never going to get the funding in

the way we should be getting it. They look at health care; they look at

K-12; they look at a number of other issues, and we are not part of that

discussion. Until we can make it clear that we have to be part of that

discussion for our state to progress, we will always have a funding issue.

That is one reason why it is critically important that each of us vote

in this election. Vote one way or another, but please vote for Proposition

301, the Education 2000 initiative, and Proposition 106, the redistricting

initiative. I filled out my ballot this weekend; it is a long ballot, especially

if you vote on each judge. If you haven?t received a pre-November 7 ballot,

I believe today is the last day to request one.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There are a whole set of legislative

coffees that are scheduled, now, starting this Thursday and running through

the end of November. This is an opportunity where you as faculty can address

the legislators one on one. I have been to these coffees and receptions

for the last two years. The number of faculty that appear, other than the

faculty leadership, has been small. If the regular faculty do not start

attending these functions, the legislators will look at that as a sign

of apathy. How many of you sit and decry the apathy of the 18-21 year-olds

that are not voting. Yet, at the same time, how many of you take seriously

the issue of talking to your legislators, in forums that we have set up

so you can do this? I would urge you to attend. If you are unsure of where

your district is, log on to the web and find out. If you want to know where

a coffee is, log onto the web and find out all this at http://www.ZSunDevils.com.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; With respect to the task forces, I

am now on three of those task forces as a result of being Senate President

last year. In addition to the two that Gail talked about, there is a third

one called the University Requirements Revision Committee, which Andy Jackson

is also on. We are going to be having two open forums for the Non-permanent

Faculty Task Force next week. The schedule is on the CLTE web site (Center

for Learning and Teaching Excellence). I would urge the academic professionals

that are here today and the faculty here today, who are in disciplines

that have lecturers and instructors, to try to attend one or two of those

forums, because we would like their input. We will be having open forums

for the Promotion and Tenure Task Force, but we have not scheduled those

yet. It has been a rather daunting task to make sense of the almost Byzantine

regulations when it comes to faculty, with regard to promotion and tenure

and putting that in some sensible framework. Second, creating language

that can oversee the reorganization, that does justice to the lengthy deliberations

and discussions that we have had, but at the same time is not so specific

as to handcuff everyone in what they want to do. The University Curriculum

Review Task Force still is waiting to have our first meeting. That is not

a comment on the process, so much as the fact that we have had a turnover

in the Provost Office of both positions, that are now filled by Tom Trotter

and Gail Hackett respectively. Tom Trotter will be involved with this new

task force, and I suspect we will have a meeting scheduled by the end of

the semester. Are there any questions?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Mattson: When are the forums

scheduled?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Gail Hackett: One is on Tuesday, October

24, 3:00 ? 5:00 p.m. in the Turquoise Room, MU 208F and one on Friday,

October 27, 10:00 ? 12:00 a.m. in the Ventana Room, MU 226C.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Mattson: Has there been effort

made to contact the faculty in their departments? Often times communication

has been poor on these events.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Burstein: The chairs of Math

and English are on this committee.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Rivera: I have a question

on promotion and tenure. We received a draft on promotion and tenure that

was being circulated, and we were told at first that we could send comments

to Anne Schneider directly--then we were told that we should give them

to our college committee. I notice that on the web site there is already

some questions being answered. Can you clarify this?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Burstein: You can send your

input directly to Anne Schneider. And could you send me a copy as well?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Saenz: Last week, President

Coor came out publicly against Proposition 203 that will end bilingual

education in the state. I would urge us as a body to make a motion or a

resolution and stand with Dr. Coor on this issue. We have a commitment

to bilingual education as an educational institution that produces teachers

and Arizona is a multicultural state. We wish our students to succeed at

the university level, but we cannot make that happen unless they have the

tools at the early levels. I just want to suggest that we stand with the

President on that proposition.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Burstein: Certainly. I support

your position.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: We will have an opportunity

under open forum to discuss that item.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We would also like to remind you that

on Thursday, District 6 Legislative Forum will be held at 700 North Dobson.

Education is on the agenda. Many of us vote in District 6, and it will

be another good opportunity to voice your political concerns.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.F ASU West Senate Report</b>

(Jane Carey).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I will be attending your Senate meetings

about every other month. It is an equal opportunity to drive over here.

We continue to work on lower division. We are tentatively planning to accept

200 freshman for next fall, and if you work backward from that goal, there

are tons of things that have to be put in place before this happens. We

are trying to figure out what we would like our community of learners to

look like, so its cohort, a non-residential campus, would have a way to

connect to our campus. Friday, October 20, there will be a panel discussion

on Learner Centered Education. This is a joint effort from the Provost

of Academic Affairs Office, but our Senate is also participating. The idea

came out of a workshop that we did this summer at an institute on Learner

Centered Education. Both Vince Waldron and I are participating in that.

We are, interestingly enough, having your Main Task Force on Promotion

and Tenure on our agenda this Wednesday, because Millie Garcia is a member

of that task force. It is appropriate for us as a senate to consider this

because we are working on promotion and tenure issues ourselves. We just

wanted to do that in the framework of what you are doing. Our goal after

our process is completed this year is to take a look at our campus level

policies.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Moorhead: Next year you will

begin offering these classes. Supposedly they will be offered with no additional

staffing. Is that right?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jane Carey: We cannot offer Math because

we have no permanent faculty at this point, but we will work out something

along those lines. It will have to be fairly constrained because we can?t

do everything. One of the things that we are doing right now is putting

a course bank together so freshman will have a selection, and then we have

to work up toward what we will offer those freshmen when they become sophomores.

Right now we are working on freshman-level courses, with our own upper

division majors in mind.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Moorhead: How do you keep

it at 200 students, with no additional staff? There will be 1,000 people

wanting to do that.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jane Carey: We have already had more

than 100 inquiries, and we have not said we are here and ready yet. We

would liken it to building an airplane in flight. We are trying to be optimistic

and hopefully we won?t crash!</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We don?t have sewer lines going in

though, and we do have lots of free parking!</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.G ASU East Senate Report</b>

(Andy Jackson).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We are having our first Academic Assembly

meeting of the academic year, Thursday, October 19, from 12:00 ? 1:30 p.m.,

and we are going to restructure our format a little bit. Previously, we

have had deans, and some of the chairs, give reports from their areas.

This time we will take care of the business at hand first. Secondly, we

will begin a dialogue on Learner Centered Education and develop some points

that we can send forward through our Academic Assemblies, to the Arizona

Faculties Council, and in addition to the Board of Regents in their discussions,

which will begin in the middle of November.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: Learner Centered

Education is a major theme across the university system, and lest you think

that nothing is going on at main campus, I will mention that we have a

presentation on Wednesday, October 18, as a part of the "Power of Technology"

seminars: <i>Constructing and Assessing English On-line Programs, </i>to

be given to Dan Bivona and Greg Glau. That series has been well attended

and many people have been pleased with the ideas that they have picked

up, and we are richer to have been involved in that.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have asked David Techau, Director

of Academic Facilities, to talk to us a bit today about the status of the

new classroom assignment process.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3H. Classroom Scheduling Update</b>

(David Techau).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I was on the web just the other day

and picked up this image here, which I thought was interesting (on his

overhead). It is our hope that we do not become yet another casualty on

the information superhighway. We are continually trying to make improvements

to this classroom scheduling system because it is a real challenge and

because each semester we are faced with different types of issues and opportunities.

Some of our ongoing efforts have included that we have made an investment

of 1.5 million dollars last spring in year-end funds, earmarked for the

purchase of, and re-capitalization of, media systems equipment, campus-wide.

This is a drop in the bucket compared to what we need to bring all the

systems up to a certain standard of media, but it has given us a lot of

help in those classrooms whose media was outdated and no longer functioning.

We have used this opportunity across the classrooms, across the campus,

in Languages and Literature Building, West Hall, Social Sciences Building,

in Engineering, Agriculture, and in JWS. This 1.5 million went a long way

to make some significant improvements in the media systems. Another thing

that came out of this is that we did create two additional lines in the

IT Media Services group. I do not know if everyone understands the fact

that Academic Scheduling obviously does the scheduling of classes, but

we have an IT Media Services group (reports to Vice Provost for Information

Technology) that oversees the classroom media support. We have worked very

closely with this media services group, because they support our efforts

in scheduling classrooms. Also we have provided an additional two weeks

for the online proofing of course schedules. I know that Daniel Rivera

sent me an email this morning about the events around the scheduling process.

I will address that issue before I end my remarks. This two weeks of proofing

really gives us (the departments and academic units) an opportunity to

see what has been scheduled through the ECA system and determine where

the anomalies are. We then have an opportunity to fix them. We need a much

more active involvement from the faculty with the designees, on the placement

of classes and the times, etc. This two-week window of proofing offers

us more time for remediation. During that two weeks of proofing, we probably

move 10-15% of our classes, after they have already been run through that

ECA system. We need to know where the errors are in the system, where the

problems are, and your designees are really the connection points, because

they bring us your faculty information. They also point out the problems

they find and give us ideas on how to resolve the issues. We are also trying

to create new media closets in each of the major classroom buildings. A

lot of equipment has previously been carried from one location into the

classroom, in a distributive model. Now we want to bring those media systems

much closer to the classrooms; then we will not have to run around campus,

and the media equipment will be where it is needed and when it is needed.

One of the major ongoing efforts is the classroom improvement plan. We

put together a five-year classroom improvement plan costing approximately

ten million dollars, and this year we received about 1.5 million dollars.

This reflects the reduced level of funding that we get from the building

renewal appropriation. Most of our money to work with comes from either

building renewal or capital funding. Whenever the university is squeezed

in those funding categories, classroom and renovation work are squeezed

as well. We do continue to fine-tune and test the ECA system. Each semester

and each schedule will be modified. Last spring we talked here about people

having to go outside of buildings to teach their classrooms, and we are

trying to make improvements and trying to recognize those areas. We are

also trying to target those renovation plans; for instance, we will be

looking at this building we are in because none of the departments? needs

that are actually housed in this building can conform to the classrooms

that are available here, such as Geography, because they need to have maps

available, and they do not need large classrooms.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We all need to understand the context

of the change that we are encountering on this campus. In terms of the

media equipment that is delivered, we have seen exponential growth since

1996 to this year. We have seen a serious growth in the requirements for

media systems and the service calls and the training of instructors. There

is a phenomenal amount of growth here that we need to keep on top of and

keep up with, and we are working with the IT support group in order to

do this. Investment of funds and additional staffing is the answer. The

growth is large, and we are doing the best we can to keep up with all this

activity that is related to scheduling academic classrooms.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Some of the things that you can do

to help us in this process are to give people adequate time to review the

course times and their schedules. Flexibility is a key issue for us because

there are only so many prime time hours that are available. Our course

requests for those hours dramatically exceed the availability for those

classroom slots. If we could clearly identify needs for classrooms, media

systems, classroom media support, and also building locations far enough

in advance, it would really help. There are forms for all faculty to fill

out and turn in. Please review the room assignments during the proofing

period so we can identify problems that occur over and over again. A lot

of departments fail to identify confirmed courses, and the system has no

way to know that these are confirmed. Then it just places these confirmed

courses in all different types of classrooms. And they need to be perhaps

in the same classroom. We need to work with the designees on this process.

We still need to maintain flexibility as our top priority. I think where

some faculty have had significant problems, related to a room that meets

their pedagogical needs, we have been able to help them if they are flexible

in the days and hours that they teach. Most often we are able to work with

them to identify alternative rooms, or even open up the room that they

are interested in, and negotiate with other departments. Give us at Academic

Facilities the opportunity to fix a problem before it becomes a crisis.

We can?t fix what we do not know about. A lot of communication is needed.

The more we know about your needs and pressures that you are feeling in

the classrooms and media flexibility, the better we will be able to provide

service to you that will be beneficial to the students as well as the faculty.

That is just a synopsis of what progress we have made in improving the

system and what you can do to assist us in this process.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dan Rivera had a question I would

like to address by showing you our timeline for the scheduling activities

on the overhead. On January 19, class skeletons are due to Academic Facilities

from all academic departments and units. Then we, my staff, and myself

spend the next two weeks entering data into the ECA system from these classroom

schedules. After February 2, no changes are made to the skeletons. We will

run a test. Then we freeze the data, and it is put online for proofing

by all the designees. By February 12 (which is two weeks later), we need

those schedules back. Last spring we caught a lot of problems, and we gave

better opportunity to voice concerns--and for us it gave more time to fix

the problems. February 23 is the proofing deadline for all schedules. As

you can see, we are working on a five-week time window to get 5,000 course

requests into basically 300 classrooms. It is a very complex process. The

system has certainly improved the use of our classroom resources. Are there

more questions?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Rivera: This answers my question.

My situation was that I found out about this process in March or April,

which based on your deadline, was way past time for input. You and I exchanged

a lot of emails and Kathy and you both tried to help me as much as you

could. I have one question though. Who are our designees? That is the person

to track on this process.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Techau: The list on the overhead

is just a synopsis of all the designees for all departments on campus.

It is a long list and there are between three and five designees in each

unit. The list is on the web page at: </font><font size=-1><a href="http://www.maps@asu.edu./">http://maps.asu.edu</a></font><font color="#0000FF"><font size=+0>.</font></font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Daniel Rivera: I did hear from two

individuals that claim they never saw a proof.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Techau: This is the gray area.

But both Kathy and I work closely with these designees. I find it hard

to believe that any of the designees are out of the loop on this.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: Perhaps remember

them at Christmas (laughter here).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Daniel Rivera: You will admit that

the needs of this campus for media and equipment are extreme. My question

is, is the administration aware of how far behind we are compared to other

schools? For instance, I was looking at a student magazine that quoted

the Internet-connected schools. They included Carnegie Mellon, and others.

This list includes many lower tiered and state schools. How many classrooms

do we have that have the Ethernet at this time, about 10%?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Techau: We have at least 50%

of our classrooms equipped with the Ethernet.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Daniel Rivera: Even with that percent,

we are way behind.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Techau: Our administration is

very aware, which is represented by their half million-dollar investment

of year-end funds. This was one indication. We are trying to make the case

that we need additional funds for media, for recapitalization of media,

and additional funds for classroom improvements. We are falling behind.

It is hard to keep up when you only get a million dollars a year, when

we have a ten million-dollar, five-year plan. Obviously it is going to

take us a lot longer until the level of funding we receive is increased.

We are working on that building renewal fund.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Burstein: What legislative coffees

did you attend last year. My point is that this has to get to the legislators.

You have to make sure they hear about this situation. I cannot tell them

for you. You need to go in person and say it yourself.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tom Trotter: The administration is

painfully aware of this situation and we are working on it.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Alex Bainbridge: The Yahoo thing is

also based on residential halls that are wired; and ours are not, but we

are working on that, which is why our ranking is down.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Daniel Rivera: That Yahoo thing also

listed wired classrooms, the list was comprehensive, but there are a large

number of campuses that have no better resources than ASU, and they are

listed 100%.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Burstein: What states?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Daniel Rivera: For example, SUNY Buffalo.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Burstein: New York is much more

supportive of its higher education.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: Thank you David for

joining us today. Looks like we have a limited number of resources that

a lot of people wish to use at the same time. Choosing to offer classes

in a late afternoon time slot or at an off-peak hour is one way to improve

your chances of getting a choice facility, but I still like the idea of

giving a Christmas present to the designee as a workable strategy.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our time frame is being stretched,

but I would like to ask if there are items for open forum?</font>

<p><b><font size=+0>4.&nbsp; Open Forum.</font></b>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Saenz: Most of you know there

is a proposition on the ballot (Proposition 203) to eliminate bilingual

programs in the state of Arizona. The proposition is almost 100% funded

by funds out of California, where they have passed a similar proposal.

Recently, President Lattie Coor came out against the proposition and his

position was announced in last Friday?s <i>Insight.</i> I would like to

call upon this body to join with President Coor in opposition to this proposal

for a variety of reasons. First, we are a public institution and our mission

is to support education. The way to do that is to make sure children get

their skills early on. Arizona is a very diverse state with many linguistic

minority groups, and the best way to get them engaged in education, so

far, is to get them involved in bilingual programs. This proposition only

offers a single alternative, a one-year immersion program that does not

really work very well. Second, on campus we have a College of Education

that is very much involved in bilingual education.&nbsp; It produces a

lot of teachers for the state. We get grant money that is based on this

form of education, and we have institutional structures that also have

focused on bilingual education. Finally, I believe that the choice of how

you can educate your children should be left up to the parents and the

community. This should not be a blanket mandate that goes out to the entire

state. Education choices should be considered as they&nbsp; apply to individual

districts. I recommend that we as a Senate take a public stand to align

ourselves with our President in opposition to Proposition 203.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: It has been moved

(with multiple seconds) that the Senate go on record opposing Proposition

203. Is there further discussion?</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Blumenfeld-Jones: I would

like to speak in favor of this resolution. I would like to see us 100%

behind it. We had a rally about two weeks ago against this proposition,

and I would remind you that there was an article on the front page of the

paper saying that corporations are in need of bilingual managers and employees,

and we all know from research that language is best learned before age

12.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: Hearing no further

discussion, we will move to a vote. Senate Resolution #1 (2000-001) was

approved by voice vote and will be forwarded to Dr. Coor as soon as possible.</font>

<p><font size=+0><b>5.</b>&nbsp; <b>Unfinished Business.</b></font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.A Executive Committee</b> (Douglas

Johnson).</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.A.1 </b>We have the election

underway to approve the revisions to the Academic Constitution and Bylaws.

You should have received an email ballot. We have received completed ballots

from 270 faculty and academic professionals as of today. The deadline to

vote is October 20. Please vote if you have not done so yet.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.B Curriculum and Academic Programs

Committee </b>(Michael Mayer).</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.B.1 </b>CAPC brings for a second

reading Senate Motion #1 for the establishment of a B.S. in American Indian

Studies. The rationale is on the agenda and posted on the web: The proposed

degree is an integral part of American Indian Studies and it will contribute

to the program?s critical forum for the articulation, celebration, and

protection of American Indian cultures. The AIS program emphasizes the

unique status of American Indians as sovereign governments with unique

cultural traditions and contemporary interests and challenges. AIS provided

a long-needed institutional home for intellectual inquiry, service, policy

analysis, and research. The AIS Program?s attention to American Indian

voices (student, faculty and community) strengthens the university?s ability

to recruit and retain American Indian faculty and students, and to provide

a vibrant link with American Indian communities.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: Hearing no further

discussion, Senate Motion #1 (2000-01) was approved by voice vote.</font>

<p><font size=+0><b>6.&nbsp; New Business </b>(Committee Reports/Motions).</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.A&nbsp; Executive Committee </b>(Doug

Johnson)</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp; The next Executive Committee meeting is

scheduled for Monday, October 30. The one after that is on Monday, November

20.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;<b>&nbsp; 6.B Committee on Committees</b> (Brent

Brown).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp; Attached to the agenda that you received

by email was a mini-preference survey form. This involves service on Senate

standing committees for the next academic year. I would encourage all of

you to fill it out today and leave it with our secretary, or go back to

the office and fill it out. Please send back your form to the Academic

Senate Office, 2202. We need these forms to consider for the next Committee

on Committees meeting. A few extras are available today.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: We are in the process

of creating a web page where you can fill out the Academic Preference Survey

form for service on University Commitees and Boards. We will be sending

this form out in paper to all faculty and academic professionals on campus

very soon. We hope that this web site will be interactive and remain up

all year so you can register your preference for committee service.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.C Curriculum and Academic Programs

Committee</b> (Michael Mayer).</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.D Senate Motion #2 (2000-01)</b>

was introduced. "The Curriculum and Academic Programs Committee recommends

Academic Senate approval of a proposal submitted by the College of Public

Programs to <b>establish a Ph.D. in Public Affairs</b>." <b>Rationale</b>:

The degree was initially named a Doctor of Public Administration for a

number of reasons: it would be oriented toward practitioners, and it would

serve a regional audience. Subsequently, it was discovered that a majority

of graduates went into academic careers, and that about 1/3 of the students

did not come from the immediate area. It is being renamed a Ph.D. because

the definition of a Ph.D. is that of a research-oriented degree. Students

have always been required to advance the frontiers of knowledge in the

field. Coursework has always been designed to stretch the conceptualization

ability of the student. The student has always been expected to be able

to do independent research in the field, and must be able to demonstrate

this through the dissertation. Essentially, the degree has always been

a Ph.D., and thus a name change is appropriate. In addition, the nomenclature

of DPA is disappearing from the field of public administration.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Saenz: Can you give the number

of graduates by percent that go off to academic feeders.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Michael Mayer: Fifty percent.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.E Student-Faculty Policy Committee</b>

(Terence Ball).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The Student Faculty Policy Committee

met on October 5 and discussed a number of items that the Committee would

like to consider over the coming academic year.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.F Personnel Committee</b> (Jose

Cobas).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Doug Johnson: Jose had to leave earlier,

so I will tell you that that committee will continue to look at issues

that are facing graduate students, and the committee is also going to look

at the health care benefit package that may be renegotiated by the end

of the year.</font>

<br><font size=+0><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.G University Services and Facilities

Committee</b> (Renu Sharma).</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Douglas Johnson: That committee meets

on Monday, October 23. I encourage you to contact Camille Irwin (965-9241)

if there are items that you would like the committee to consider at their

next meeting.</font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I would encourage each of you to participate

in any upcoming legislative receptions that are planned in your district.

We must get better at this process of making our concerns known and in

supporting higher education by our vote and our presence at these events.

So, please be visible.</font>

<p><font size=+0><b>7.</b>&nbsp; <b>Adjournment.</b></font>

<br><font size=+0>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There being no further business to

consider, the meeting adjourned at 4:40 p.m.</font>

<p><font size=+0>Recorded and edited by:</font>

<br><font size=+0>Darby Shaw, Administrative Associate</font>

<p><font size=+0>Final Editing by:</font>

<br><font size=+0>Anne Kopta, Secretary of the Senate</font>

</body>

</html>

