<!doctype html public "-//w3c//dtd html 4.0 transitional//en">


<html>


<head>


   <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">


   <meta name="Generator" content="Microsoft Word 97">


   <meta name="Template" content="C:\PROGRAM FILES\MICROSOFT OFFICE\OFFICE\html.dot">


   <meta name="GENERATOR" content="Mozilla/4.61 [en] (Win95; I) [Netscape]">


   <title>Transcript of the Senate Meeting of January 31, 2000</title>


</head>


<body text="#000000" bgcolor="#FFFFFF" link="#0000FF" vlink="#800080">


<font color="#33FF33"><b>Yes,</b>


We Are</font> <font color="#CC33CC">Celebrating</font> <b><font color="#00CC00">Spring&nbsp;<img SRC="file:///C|/htemp/Academic%20Senate/minutes/penguindanceSmWHT.gif" height=66 width=40></font></b><font color="#33CCFF">And


AFC's Minor Victory</font>.&nbsp;<font color="#009900"><b> Good</b> <b>Job


</b></font><font color="#CC33CC">on


SB 1512.</font><img SRC="file:///C|/htemp/Academic%20Senate/minutes/2confetti.gif" height=89 width=119><img SRC="file:///C|/htemp/Academic%20Senate/minutes/2confetti.gif" BORDER=0 height=89 width=135><img SRC="file:///C|/htemp/Academic%20Senate/minutes/2confetti.gif" BORDER=0 height=89 width=114><img SRC="file:///C|/htemp/Academic%20Senate/minutes/2confetti.gif" BORDER=0 height=89 width=100><img SRC="file:///C|/htemp/Academic%20Senate/minutes/2confetti.gif" height=89 width=100>


<center>


<p><b>ACADEMIC SENATE MINUTES</b>


<p><b>Meeting of March 20, 2000</b>


<p><b>John W. Schwada Classroom Building, Room 210</b>


<p><b>3:15 - 5:00 p.m.</b></center>





<p><b>Present:</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> </font>Allen, Ball,


Balling, Bates, Bell, Berman, Bernstein, Bieber, Bird, Bolin, Bologna,


Bortner, Brock, Brooks, Brown, Burg, Burgess, Burstein, Carey (Rick Knopf


for), Craft, Crawford, DeFato, Evancho, Ewing, Feller, Fink, Fouquette,


Glick (Walter Harris for), Goggin, Gooding, Grossman, Gustavsson, Hajicek,


Hoffmeister, Holsman, Jacob, Johnson, Kahn, Karady, Komnenich, Kopta, Krus,


Landers (Dan), Landers (Donna), LaPointe, MacEachron, Margolis, Mayer,


McGowan, McNeill, Moeckel, Moore (Carleton), Mulvihill, Nickerson, O'Grady,


Okun, Padilla, Perry, Prust, Reyes, Rivera, Roosa, Rose, Saenz, Solis,


Stanton, Thieme, Thurber, Tillery, Underwood, Virden, Wilkinson (Mistalene


Calleroz for)


<p><b>Senators Not Present:</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> </font>Adams


(with prior notice), Baldini (with prior notice), Blackson, Blumenfeld-Jones,


Britton, Clark, Cochran (with prior notice), Cook, Fafitis, Ferraro (with


prior notice), Halverson (with prior notice), Kumar, Larimer, Lock, Magenta,


Matt, Mignolet, Mistra, Moore (M), Panchanathan, Pessler, Philippakis,


Rice, Roy, Rudolph, SanMartin, Sharma, Smith (G), Smith (H), Stanford,


Strom, Towe, Turner, Vaughan, Vitullo (with prior notice), Webb, Wyndelts


(with prior notice), Zeitlin, Zeng


<p><b>1. Call to Order.</b>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The meeting was called to order at 3:20 p.m. by


Senate President David Burstein.


<p><b>2. Acceptance of Previous Minutes of February 21, 2000.</b>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The minutes of February 21, 2000 were approved by


voice vote as published on the Academic Senate web site and distributed


by email. If there are further editorial corrections, please contact Darby


Shaw at the Senate office (965-9245vm).


<p><b>3. Announcements and Communications</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">.</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> 3.A. Senate


President's Report</font> </b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">(David


Burstein).</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Despite our best efforts, Senate Bill 1512 (whistleblower


bill) passed the Senate and will probably pass the House. If the House


passes it, one of two things will happen 1) the Governor will let it pass.


2) The Governor will veto SB 1512. This bill usurps the constitutional


authority of the Board of Regents. As such, if the bill is not vetoed,


the Board of Regents will have to fight this in court as being unconstitutional.


It is a sad day when someone can represent himself or herself as representing


the faculty of the universities, when in fact they are not elected by most


of the faculty. That is what happened here.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; On the brighter side, I hope you all had a good


break, I know I did.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We currently have three taskforces at work on three


different issues within the University. Vice-Provost Walter Harris is here


today and he have gave the charges to all three of those taskforces. The


first taskforce is taking the result of the streamlining issues that were


voted on by the Senate last year, and is concerned with implementing them


within the university. Of particular interest to all faculty, is that we


will be heading toward a more uniform check sheet for all departments and


schools of the university, so that the check sheets have a certain format


to them that is common to all places. We think this can be done in a way


that is still fairly transparent to what is currently done. Most of the


departments and schools really do not have to change anything they do.


In a few of the schools and departments, there is going to have to be either


some reorganization of their curricula or a good rationale backed up by


issues pertaining to accreditation and/or attention to the needs of the


students as to why that particular major should not be in compliance with


the requirements. We are going to set up a procedure as to how this will


be done. We are hopeful it will not be too cumbersome of a procedure.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The second task force is working on the promotion


and tenure policy at the university level. We have had ongoing meetings,


with a wide-ranging discussion among the committee members. My sense of


what is going on is that any change in the language that is currently being


used in promotion and tenure policy will be relatively minor. However,


some of the procedures that we use for promotion and tenure will receive


recommendations for making that a bit more streamlined in and of itself.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The third task force is on a subject that we touch


on today in the revision of the constitution and bylaws, namely, how the


university should treat the non-permanent faculty that are part of the


university. We are still in the process of information gathering; trying


to find out how this issue is handled on other campuses; then, also getting


input from the three main areas in the university for which this is a major


problem (English, Mathematics and the Honors College). One of the interesting


facts about this is that the issue of voting between the lecturers and


instructors and the unit is very different for English than for Math, and


certainly different from those two for the Honors College. One of the facts


we are facing is that one size will not fit all.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What comes up today in addition to the revisions


of the bylaws are two things: 1) a first reading on the revisions to our


grievance policy for faculty (ACD 509-02). To refresh your memory, these


are the Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure (CAFT), the Governance


Grievance Committee, and the Equal Opportunity Board. Just as with the


Intellectual Property Implementation Policy (IP-squared), we will have


to institute in our ACD 509-02 the same language that we instituted there


to take care of the Arizona Supreme Court ruling on the Kimball case (ARS


41-1062). Please compare the changes and note that they are very similar


and made with specific changes that fit the grievance policy. It is my


hope that you will approve this at the April meeting, because your questions


will have been answered in our extensive discussion that we had on the


IP-squared policy at the February 21, Senate meeting. We may discuss any


further questions you have.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> 3.B University


Provost's Report</font></b> (Vice-Provost Walter Harris for Provost Glick).


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There is one thing that I would like to update you


on, the classroom mediation study. As you know, we have had a number of


ongoing discussions this year, both in this Senate and around campus regarding


class scheduling. After the new class scheduling system was implemented,


we noticed that there was a substantial disruption of life as we had come


to know it on campus. In looking at that issue and listening to the comments


people were making about the system, we discovered that often the issues


had more to do with mediation and technology in the classroom than they


did with actual scheduling. While there were some issues related to scheduling,


when we started listing all the issues there really were many more comments


about the level of mediation and how that mediation is deployed throughout


campus than there were comments about the actual class scheduling.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognizing that, we had a substantial discussion


about this at the Council of Deans. From that discussion Dr. Glick asked


Dr. Bill Lewis, who is here today, and I to co-chair a study group that


would take a look at classroom technology and media. This group will see


what recommendations we might come up with, not to solve all the problems,


but that which goes a long way toward resolving some of the critical issues


related to classroom mediation. As a part of that group's work, we are


holding three open forums for faculty, staff, and students. One was held


this morning. There are two remaining open hearings scheduled: Friday,


March 24, 1:30-2:30 p.m. and Tuesday, April 4, 2:00-3:00 p.m. Both will


be held in the Computing Commons Bldg., room 120, the auditorium area.


The purpose of those forums is to seek input from all the stakeholders,


the faculty, students, and staff on the various issues associated with


classroom mediation. We are interested in knowing what type of equipment


we ought to be placing in the rooms, or have on hand from some central


source to be able to deploy to the rooms. We are interested in knowing


about issues of support and training, the whole range of things that we


hope to be able to make recommendations on. So, let me encourage you and


encourage you to encourage your faculty, staff, and students in your various


departments, schools, and colleges to try to attend one or the other of


the two remaining forums. We are moving on a fast time line. We hope to


gather most of our information within the next two weeks. We will have


an implementation plan by April 30. We want to be able to use some of this


year's dollars to try to begin to attack the problem. Some of the questions


include: Do we want to use all fixed media in the classrooms or place more


emphasis and resources in the Media Services area and work toward having


that deployed more effectively and efficiently, or any other set of things?


We want to hear from all of you on these issues and we will work as hard


as we can to develop a plan that will go a long way toward satisfying some


of the critical issues. We will not be able to solve all the problems.


We will take the best from the plan period to put together and try to address


the major problems.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Berman: I heard that the extra 1% merit


has fallen apart, is that true, regarding the April increases.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Harris: I do not know that it has fallen


apart altogether but it is true that we do not have anyone down at the


legislature who is carrying the ball on this for us. It may very well have


fallen apart, but we do not know that yet.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Gooding: You addressed the classroom mediation


issue and kind of set aside the class-scheduling question. Is anything


being done to improve that? (It is not fixed yet).


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Harris: Yes. In fact, David Techau


will attend the next Senate meeting on April 10 to talk to you about many


of the changes that have been made regarding scheduling.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">&nbsp; 3.C ASASU


President's Report</font> </b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">(Jenny


Holsman).</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My comments will be brief. We are very focused on


two two programs right now: The tuition hearings of the tuition process.


We are working with the Arizona Board of Regents and the Arizona Students


Association in determining the two adjustments to tuition increases for


students, and we are working with administration here making sure that


they are aware of proposal as well. The tuition hearings are this Thursday,


March 23.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We are also working hard on the Insuring Tomorrow


Program which is on April 1 and Jack Kemp will be our speaker. The program


begins at 4:00 p.m. in the Gammage Auditorium and all of you are invited


to attend. He will speak to us on how to take the leadership skills that


we learn as students, staff, and faculty and taking that back into the


community.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our Carnival de Diablo, which is our Mardi Gras


program, will be held in the first week of April.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our Government Relations Department has been lobbying


on behalf of all students in Washington, D.C. and visiting with our state


representatives and senators trying to develop more financial aid programs.


<p><b>4. Open Forum.</b>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: On the issue that was just raised,


you mentioned that we have nobody in the legislature looking out for us.


My question is, why? Were other university issues more important and we


lobbied on those?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: The university has been


demonized at the legislature this time.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: Even among those from our most heavily


populated area, District 27 and others?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Yes. Not so much among


those, but they are a minority on this issue. We have been hit with a number


of different bills that are detrimental to the University. It is not just


the one-percent raise for the University that is the issue. It is not just


the University that receives that one-percent addition; it is all state


employees. We are in the minority with other State employees. It is the


fact that the legislature simply does not view raises for people that work


for the State as very important. As I say, that is not clear what that


says.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Something is clear though, unless we as citizens


of this state take a more active role in the legislature and the legislative


election process in the coming year, when there will be a fairly big turnover


in the legislature due to the imposition of term limits--unless we take


a very active role in our own districts, it is not clear that we will get


any better positioned than we are now. In the one committee in the House


that I attended that was dealing with SB 1512, there were 206 bills in


all being considered. In that atmosphere of many bills, unless you people


really pushing hard for an item, it does not get done. Does that mean that


our people and at UofA and NAU and the Board of Regents have not been down


at the legislature every day lobbying and trying to get people to listen.


No. They have been down there every day lobbying. I do not like to be pessimistic


about this thing, but when you say certain facts, and they are being portrayed


as lies, there is a problem.


<p><b>5. Unfinished Business (items for second reading)</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">.</font>


<br><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.A Executive Committee </b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">(David


Burstein).</font>


<br><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.A.1 Report of the Bylaws Committee (</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">John


Crawford).</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As we introduced this document at our last meeting,


we made it clear that there were very few targets for this review of the


bylaws. The most significant change was to increase the level of enfranchisement


for the nonpermanent faculty; we took those individuals with three-year


renewable contracts and made them members of the Academic Assembly. That


is probably one of the more controversial issues. Are there questions from


the Senate on the proposed revisions?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Thieme: Would you please comment on how


lecturers will be represented in the Academic Assembly in the future and


how this will effect the voting rights within the departments. Do the departments


still have the possibility of restricting their voting rights within the


department?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Crawford: The Senate as a general principle


does not have the authority to interfere with the bylaws of individual


departments. We are constructing the Senate's bylaws in terms of how we


intend to govern ourselves and to conduct business here. What we do here


does not automatically supercede the bylaws of individual departments.


In that sense, we are not impinging directly on what you and your colleagues


decide to do in your own department. So, the issue as to whether or not


our enfranchisement of these people impinges on your ability to manage


who does and who does not deal with curriculum activities, tenure and promotion


issues in the department of Math--that still remains your own purview.


We are not infringing on that issue at all.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Prust: As an ex-officio member of this body


I want to speak to another issue. On the section on ex-officio, non-voting


members of the Senate, on page 4, section 3.b. it does not have the correct


title, a correction is needed from "Chair of the Emeritus Faculty Association"--to


"President of the Emeritus Faculty Club." In addition, since I am President


of the ASU Retirees Association this year, it was my understanding that


Dr. Hal White introduced that position as a non-voting member also, and


I have not yet seen that added in this document. That should be under 3.c


President of the Arizona State Retirees Association.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: These will be considered


as amendments to the revisions.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Crawford read the changes as proposed.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Prust: I apologize for not putting this


in writing. The Retirees Association has administrators, staff, and faculty


as members. I was under the impression that last year Dr. White reported


that we were included as ex-officio members of this body.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Crawford: Thank you for reminding us of


that. I agree that was understood.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Are there further comments


on this amendment? Hearing none, we will vote. This amendment will be included.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Bernstein: Were ASU Main and East polled


on the issue of the curriculum approval process at East? Did you have a


representative from East sit with your bylaws committee that developed


these revisions?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: To answer your question,


East is not a totally separate campus from Main, but is in fact a separate


campus from Main. We are in the process of developing each campus' curriculum


approval process.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Bernstein: For one thing, we do not have


a separate accreditation for each of us but we do have separate authority


from NCA for East to a separate campus, it is called a "full service campus."


In that proposal, we have to submit all kinds of materials that indicate


the authority over faculty and over the curriculum and how that fits with


ASU Main. Due to this, I am not even sure the document changes are correct


as they apply to East Campus.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: But on the other hand,


it is the case that our bylaws can be revised at any time, and rather than


to delay it further, I would prefer to have a vote on issues now, and then


if we need to revise them, we will. The issue with respect to ASU East


needs more discussion within our administration. It is a good point, but


where we go from there, I am not sure.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Thieme: As I understand, the Financial Affairs


Committee is merged with the University Services and Facilities Committee


and a new University Affairs Committee is now constituted in its place.


However, the responsibilities of the new committee do not seem to include


all of the duties of both committees. It does not examine salary schedules,


hiring issues. What has happened to those tasks?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Crawford: The committee did deal with those


issues at one time. You may recall the Financial Affairs Committee has


been inactive for the last three years. We have not even appointed people


to that committee. What we wanted to do with the new committee is to take


on issues of faculty life, such as the shower access issue. The financial


issues have been out of our domain now for about three to four years.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: The financial issues were out of


our domain for a long time before that. It just became time for the committee


(Financial Affairs Committee) to finally realize that and stop wasting


time.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Are there further questions


on the revisions? Hearing none, we will vote. The revisions to the Bylaws


were unanimously passed by voice vote.


<br><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.B Curriculum and Academic Programs Committee


</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">(Jack


Fouquette).</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Fouquette: CAPC introduced four new motions


at our February meeting. You will vote on them today.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> 5.B.1 </font>Senate


Motion #13</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> is from the College of


Education which a request for a change in the name of a Ph.D. program in


Learning and Instructional Technology to a Ph.D. in Educational Technology.</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Is there further discussion?


Hearing none, we will vote. Senate Motion 13 was unanimously passed by


voice vote.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> 5.B.2</font>


Senate Motion #14</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> is also from the


College of Education to disestablish the M.Ed. in Learning and Instructional


Technology.</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Is there further discussion?


Hearing none, we will vote. Senate Motion #14 was unanimously passed by


voice vote.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> 5.B.3 </font>Senate


Motion #15</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> is also from the College


of Education to merge two degree programs: M.Ed. in Learning and Instructional


Technology and the M.Ed. Educational Media and Computers to form the M.Ed.


in Educational Technology.</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Is there further discussion?


Hearing none, we will vote. Senate Motion #15 was unanimously passed by


voice vote.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">&nbsp; 5.B.4</font>


Senate Motion #16</b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> is from the College


of Liberal Arts and Sciences, to disestablish a BS in Women's Studies.</font>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: Is there further discussion?


Hearing none, we will vote. Senate Motion #16 was unanimously passed by


voice vote.


<p><b>6. New Business (Committee Reports and New Motions for First Reading).</b>


<br><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.A Executive Committee</b>(David Burstein).


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times"> 6.A.1 Revisions


to the ACD 509-02 "Faculty Grievance Procedures."</font></b>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The proposed revisions are the same language that


we inserted into the Intellectual Property Management Implementation Policy,


to make it conform to the A.R.S. 41-1062 language in the ruling on the


Kimball case. It affords grievants the right to full counsel in grievance


hearings and it gives the chair of the grievance committees the right of


subpeona. The language is adjusted slightly to fit into the grievance policy.


We will vote on it at our April 10 Senate meeting.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">6.A.2 Input


to the proposed ASU Computer, Internet and Electronic Communications Policy


(rev.1.0 12-22-99).</font></b>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: What we want you to do


today is to review the policy completely. This document had its beginnings


in the Information Technology Advisory Committee (ITAC); it has been discussed


at ASU East; it has been discussed at ASU West; and it is time to discuss


it at ASU Main. Are there questions of information or comments?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: Part 4, section G, defines for who


access to file storage is available. I would like to ask a general question


as to what are the access rights of emeriti faculty to university computers,


including web pages, file storage, and electronic mail.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: The question relates, as I understand


it, to the permission or access afforded to emeriti faculty for access


to files and other services.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: To the same types of services that


we enjoyed as full-time faculty.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: The policy we have in effect


will not change; we will extend full services to retired emeriti faculty


as well as retired staff, the same as they had while they were a full-time


employee of the university, that includes your email access and other services.


The question that might be addressed is related to your local desktop computer;


that is more of a department or local issue and not a central university


issue.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Nickerson: I have three questions regarding


this policy. Under the same area that was just addressed, there was one


question that addresses students--what happens for students that are taking


a semester off or are enrolled abroad for a semester. They will have interruption


but not complete withdrawal from the university.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: That is an issue of importance


to us. We only want to prevent fraudulent use of university resources.


We use, in the case of students, our current enrollment data to determine


if an individual is a student or not. The same way with faculty and staff,


we go to the human resources personnel system information to determine


that. If a student is not enrolled, then their access will be terminated,


typically at the end of the semester of their last enrollment. In many


cases, particularly in the overseas programs, students maintain one or


more credit hours of enrollment in the university because of the issue


of catalog year. If you are out for one year, you must come in under a


new catalog. That would guarantee the student current access and privileges.


If they have not enrolled, they would have to come back and reenroll, just


like under the new catalog, they would have to reestablish their computer


accounts all over again.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Nickerson: My second question concerns part


2, B.5. There must be circumstances where an individual's home page would


be appropriately linked to a commercial site (as in a resume -- I worked


for Company X).


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: Again, what we are trying to


do here is make sure that our university resources are not being used improperly.


We are trying to find a way to explain what we are trying to accomplish,


but we are trying to soften the wording where we can.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Nickerson: My third question was the use


of computer accounts by those that do not own the account. Whether students


wanting to wrap up a project may give other students their ID, so they


may have access to their data? Your wording seems to preclude that.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: We do not have rules that say


you must give someone else written permission to use your account, however,


there is a risk in doing that. The reason that we give IDs is so that if


there is a problem we can identify where the problem came from. There is


always that situation; I would rather have multiple accounts to replicate


information myself. That way you can know what has happened to your data--whether


you did it or someone else did it. Or, if someone has sent out an email


message that was offensive that caused you problems, you could say, well,


I did not give that person a permit authorization. It is a protection issue


for you as well as anything else. You have certain responsibilities to


monitor your own accounts, so that you are not accused of something unjustly.


I would hesitate to give out my information to a student. I would rather


duplicate the information so that I know what has happened to it. There


some issues that we need to know what the ramifications are.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Gooding: I am satisfied with your answer


to 4.G, it is quite satisfactory. Can we expect that there will be a change


in the wording here to include "emeriti faculty" because the wording here


says "available only to current university employees." Will there be a


revision to this?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: It was overlooked, and I will


change that. We have always followed the policy of extending the same privileges


to emeriti faculty, or to retired staff.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Ewing: I have a question under number 23.


Do you consider handing out ethernet cables to people who are not members


of the ASU community as unauthorized wiring?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: I need you to explain your question


further.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Ewing: We have ethernet cables that we hand


out to law students to access the Law Library network. We also hand these


out to non-university members. They are accessing the Law Library resources,


through the ASU network, but they are doing it from their personal computer


at home.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: My answer is no, but I have


other concerns beyond the cable. The concern is the use of university resources


for non-university functions, more so than just handing out the cable.


I also feel that there is a liability that the Law Library will have, as


will the University Libraries, when they let people come in and use their


online resources. When you go to the Information Technology site, you do


not use those resources without your ASU id. We know who has used the resources


at any given time. If you go to the ASU Library or the Law Library, at


any given time, the only thing I can tell is what port they were connected


to, but I cannot tell who was there. I worry about the exposure of the


university if something happens from one of these sites that causes severe


problems. I do not know how to completely avoid these situations. There


are a lot of uses that are within the guidelines. We are not trying to


tell students that they cannot send email to their parents out of state.


On the contrary, we want them to keep in touch. Is that official university


use, probably not, but we will still not extend our policy that far.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Feller: There seems to be some confusion


here. The Law Library is operated as a public facility used by people that


are not members of the ASU community, and we consider that an important


part of our relationship with the larger community. I wonder if we are


seeing a fundamental tension here because certain electronic facilities


are a part of the Law Library.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: The answer to that question


is, you see me being worried about what some ramifications may be, but


there is not intent at this time that I know of. However, you need to be


aware that if something happens, the best I can do is say it came from


your library. I cannot go further than that.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Feller: I mention this because I would not


like to see the computer and telecommunications policy driving the Law


Library policy on access.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: That is not our intent and will


not be the case.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: Is your concern about access to the


university mainframe by telephone from home? Mine is a very slow modem,


although there is much more rapid access offered by providers using the


ethernet connection.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: The question you ask is one


that I can address. The dial-up modem has been used as a way to identify


whether or not it is a university user, by their ID. We have just set up


with Speed Choice which does provide wireless, high speed access, a direct


connection, where if you are a Speed Choice customer they will transfer


your data from Speed Choice to us over a private line which we have established.


We will change your address to look like an asu.edu domain name so you


can have full access to university resources just as if you are on campus.


We are trying to do the same thing with US West, and with Cox, but they


have not been very receptive to doing something yet. It was more of a technology


issue than a policy issue.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Jacob: It still sounds like an access concern


because you were making the change of address on your end without our being


aware of it.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: I will give you an example;


the Library has certain subscriptions that cannot be used except by authorized


faculty, staff, and students, and the Law Library has the same thing. The


way we restrict that is if it is coming in from an asu.edu domain name.


That is how we can identify that it is a legitimate ASU usage. That is


the issue.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Grossman: With regard to that section, I


think we all understand what you are driving at there. However, the language


is pretty ambiguous, there is a lot one could read into that--going to


a web site that someone has been formally authorized to use-to-how one


wires one's computer at home. I think your view is one we can all support,


if you might restructure the language a little bit to make it less ambiguous.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: As I said before, B.5 has come


up several times and in a few others spots. That is why I have asked for


your input today. Let me see if we can do something.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senator Bell: I just wanted to reiterate what you


said about the library situation. As it stands right now, anyone who walks


in to any of the university libraries, no matter who they are, has access


to everything on a work station, with the exception of accessing abstracts,


unless they have a password that admits them. That has been going on now


ever since I can recall. We feel that everybody in the libraries should


be able to make use of our online resources.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: The problem is that the advantage


gained from coming on campus is that they have the asu.edu address. It


is when they access resources from outside the campus that they are not


set up.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President-elect Johnson: Bill, when Speed


Choice is provided by Sprint, does this same thing still prevail?


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: If you go to the Sprint's homepage


where they advertise, it says "coming soon." I am not sure what the status


is. If you also try to get a speed choice connection right now, they will


say, "soon."


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President-elect Johnson: They have also changed


their service map.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice Provost Lewis: Yes. There is an awful lot of


change. The answer is that we hope so, because we have already put the


T1 line between their router and our router.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: I wish to congratulate


this group because you have come up with more questions than East and West.


Dr. Lewis, can I assume safely that the Senate will see a revision of this


document? (Yes.)


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;<b><font face="Times New Roman,Times">&nbsp; 6.B. Committee


on Committees</font></b> (Brent Brown).


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The Committee on Committees has been working hard


to get the ballot filled. I want to thank all of those who have stepped


forward and agreed to put your name on the ballot. Thank you. It is hard


to fill all these positions. The ballot will be mailed April 10-12 and


should be returned by April 21. The candidates will be announced electronically


on March 24 and announced in Insight on March 31. We would just like everyone


to make as wide a distribution as possible on the announcement of the candidates,


and to make sure that everybody gets their paper ballot back into the mail


by April 21. The results will be announced at the May 1 Senate meeting.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Senate President Burstein: I also would like to


thank those who agreed to run. As I have come to appreciate from my own


experience as Senate President, people in the position of leadership of


the Assembly having considerable knowledge of the university.


<br><b>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.C Curriculum and Academic Programs Committee</b>


(Jack Fouquette).


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We bring three information items (for first reading


only). The first is a change in the requirements for a certificate in Women's


Studies from 21 to 18 hours. The second is a change in the name of a concentration:


a Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction, from Reading Education to Language


and Literacy. The third is a name change of a concentration, in the Education


Ed.D. in Curriculum and Instruction: from Reading Education to Language


and Literacy.


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There were no further reports.


<p><b>7. Adjournment.</b>


<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There being no further business, the meeting adjourned


at 4:24 p.m.


<p>Recorded and edited by: Darby Shaw, Administrative Associate


<br>Final editing by: Dawn Bates, Secretary of the Senate


</body>


</html>


